---
layout: nav
title: The Law!
---

State {#state}
-----
BILL NUMBER: AB 1228 CHAPTERED BILL TEXT CHAPTER 50 FILED WITH SECRETARY OF
STATE JULY 14, 2003 APPROVED BY GOVERNOR JULY 14, 2003 PASSED THE ASSEMBLY
JUNE 30, 2003 PASSED THE SENATE JUNE 24, 2003 AMENDED IN SENATE JUNE 12, 2003
AMENDED IN SENATE MAY 15, 2003 INTRODUCED BY Assembly Member Dutton FEBRUARY
21, 2003 An act to add Section 65850.3 to the Government Code, relating to
zoning. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGEST AB 1228, Dutton. Zoning ordinances:
radio antennas.

Existing law authorizes the legislative body of any county or city to adopt
zoning ordinances for various purposes. This bill would require that any
ordinance adopted by the legislative body of a city or county that regulates
amateur radio station antenna structures not preclude amateur radio service
communications, reasonably accommodate amateur radio service communications,
allow amateur radio station antenna structures to be erected at heights and
dimensions sufficient to accommodate amateur radio service communications,
and constitute the minimum practicable regulation to accomplish the legitimate
purpose of the city or county. It would declare that it is the intent of the
Legislature in enacting this bill to codify in state law the provisions of
specified federal regulations relating to amateur radio station facilities.

THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA DO ENACT AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Section 65850.3 is added to the Government Code, to read:

>Any ordinance adopted by the legislative body of a city or county that
>regulates amateur radio station antenna structures shall allow those
>structures to be erected at heights and dimensions sufficient to accommodate
>amateur radio service communications, **shall not preclude amateur radio**
>service communications, shall **reasonably accommodate** amateur radio service
>communications, and shall constitute the **minimum practicable regulation** to
>accomplish the city's or county's legitimate purpose.
>
>It is the intent of the Legislature in adding this section to the Government
>Code, to codify in state law the provisions of Section 97.15 of Title 47 of
>the Code of Federal Regulations, which expresses the Federal Communications
>Commission's limited preemption of local regulations governing amateur radio
>station facilities.

The ordinance facing Oceanside residents will preclude most (if not all)
amateurs due to the high cost of a Conditional Use Permit, and the completely
unreasonable application administrative process we will be forced to follow.

We support a different permit process (or none at all) for amateur users that
does **not** require costly permits, RF tests, etc.

For more information about the Conditional Use Permit (CUP), administrative
process, and associated fees, please see the [Article 39](/article-39.html)
page.

Federal {#federal}
-------
[Sense of Congress](http://www.fcc.gov/Bureaus/OSEC/library/legislative_histories/1347.pdf)

>SEC. 10. (a) The Congress finds that-
>>>      (1) more than four hundred and thirty-five thousand four
>>   hundred radio amateurs in the United States are licensed by
>>   the Federal Communications Commission upon examination in
>>   radio regulations, technical principles, and the international
>>   Morse code;
>>>      (2) by international treaty and the Federal Communications
>>   Commission regulation, the amateur is authorized to operate
>>   his or her station in a radio service o' intercommunications and
>>   technical investigations solely with a personal aim and **without
>>   pecuniary interest**;
>>>      (3) among the basic purposes for the Amateur Radio Service is
>>   the provision of voluntary, noncommercial radio service,
>>   particularly emergency communications; and
>>>      (4) volunteer amateur radio emergency communications services
>>   have consistently and reliably been provided before, during,
>>   and after floods, tornadoes, forest fires, earthquakes, blizzards,
>>   train wrecks, chemical spills, and other disasters.
>(b) It is the sense of the Congress that-
>>>      (1) it strongly encourages and supports the Amateur Radio
>>   Service and its emergency communications efforts; and
>>>      (2) Government agencies strong shall take into account</strong> the valuable
>>   contributions made by amateur radio operators **when considering
>>   actions affecting the Amateur Radio Service**.
>
>Approved November 3, 1988.
